So, if you're a game developer like me,
you know this feeling. We've got an idea
for a world, but that idea is stuck,
isn't it? It's stuck behind the work,
the hours and hours of drawing every
single tile, the grass, the stone, and
all the transitions.
But what if we could just describe it?
This is the Pixel Lab AI Map Workshop.
And it's not just another pixel editor.
It's a workflow. It's designed to be a
collaborator to help us get from blank
canvas to playable prototype fast. This
is about augmenting our workflow. All
right. Here you can create your maps and
your tile sets. I'm going to click
create new tile set. And notice we have
two slots, lower terrain and higher
terrain. I'm going to drag and drop my
own custom grass tile into the higher
terrain slot. Now for the lower terrain,
which will be our riverbed, I'll type
calm river blue water. And as you can
see, we have transitions as well. And we
can choose the size. So I'll choose
large. And I'll keep the default prompt,
but you can prompt anything that makes
sense with the tile set. And look, the
AI generated the water and all the
transitions between my custom grass and
the new water edge. It's a perfect mix.
I'm just going to fill the background
with our grass. And now, let's grab the
water and paint in a river for our
level.
All right. Okay, so now that I made a
quick sketch, I want to start getting
more details on the map, make it an
actual environment. So, I was thinking
maybe we could add a wooden bridge. So,
I'm going to click the inpaint map
button, select the area where I want to
impact
where it should do the actual
impainting. The area outside of your
drawing is basically like context for
the AI to know where it's at. I'm going
to prompt a wooden bridge on the water.
And there we have it. Now we can cross
to the other side.
Now that we have our bridge, I'm
thinking we can add maybe some props.
Let's start with a nice tree. I'm going
to click the create object button.
Select the area. I'm going to type in
beautiful pine tree in a forest. And
boom. You can now select, move, and
duplicate the object. So keep that in
mind. In painting is static. Objects can
be moved and manipulated. And as you can
see, we also have a edit in Pixelarama
button for every object you make. That
way, you can fix up your objects instead
of redoing them every time you don't
like something minimal. Here's the thing
about AI. It's great at getting us 90%
of the way there. But in gamedev, that
last 10%, that's everything. Okay, but
what about our main character? We've got
our character sprite right here on our
desktop. Let's just drag the file and
drop it on the map. That's it. It's in.
It's ready to go. Now you know you can
drag and drop any asset you have in your
computer right into the map. All right.
So, now that we covered that, I think we
need another tile set. We only have
grass and water right now, but I think
we should probably make a dirt path. So,
let's do that. I'm going to click the
grass tile and then the plus button.
Here we can select if we want it to be
the upper terrain or lower. So I'm going
to choose upper. That way the dirt tile
is the lower tile. So this way we can
connect already existing tiles and make
new ones that work together. I'll prompt
a yellow dirt tile. And boom. Now I can
draw a dirt path and have a more dynamic
map.
I think we can finish the video off by
making a little post office for the map.
I'm going to prompt a front-facing
compact red brick post office with a
flat gray roof, centered glass entrance
on the bottom, a blue postal sign above
the doorway, and let's see what we get.
Okay, cool. There we got a pretty nice
brick building. We can of course edit it
in Pixelorama if we want to change stuff
up or we can keep making more buildings
and assets for our map. And yeah, I
think we covered a good amount in this
video. Make sure to comment what you
think, if you have any questions, or
just to show some love. Don't forget to
leave a like and subscribe and I'll see
you in the next